-Heli 30. here U05.
-Heli 30 answers.
A car that resembles the getaway vehicle
from last week.
Blue Ford Taunus.
License plate November Viktor 34550.
We have lost visual contact.
Flying towards Marienlyst.
We are looking for the car.
Understood. We're going there.
Thank you.
Hi. boss.
Where?
Heli 30.
To the east on Marienlyst-Straße.
He has seen us.
He gets faster.
-Hi. Tom.
-In a hurry?
The getaway car from the robbery
has been spotted.
See you later?
I'm calling.
-Harry. wait!
-U05 to all units.
Looking for a blue Ford Taunus.
License plate November Viktor 34550.
Bravo 41. we are on our way.
Bravo 42. we're here.
Heading for Majorstukrysset.
Slowly! Take it easy!
Ten o'clock. That's the news.
More people are demanding
that the police carry weapons.
as Oslo now has more illegal weapons
than ever before.
And it seems that a gang conflict
is escalating in the suburbs.
More news:
The heatwave in Oslo continues.
Yesterday it was over 31 degrees.
-Helge?
-Yes?
"The person with the highest authority
opens the safe
and puts the money in the black bag.
She has 30 seconds.
If it takes longer.
the person reading this will be shot."
-27...
-Yes...
-26...
-Wait.
-Another 20 seconds.
-Yes. wait. I have to...
Seventeen...
The green ribbon. Helge.
Just a moment.
Seven.
Five.
-Two. Helge!
-Yes! Listen. I have to...
-I have to open the other lock.
-Two. Helge!
-Yes!
Here.
Six seconds too long.
Harry?
-What the hell are you doing?
-I'm working. boss.
The bank robbery happened
more than five years ago.
And?
It doesn't help anyone to reopen the case.
especially not you.
Ok.
Ellen? I need to know people.
Come. The biometrics expert is here.
The one borrowed
from the forensics department in Stockholm.
Take care of it.
-Me?
-I told you.
I thought you were joking.
I don't have any...
Knowledge of human nature?
Social competence? Leadership qualities?
Can you pull yourself together?
Try to get along with normal people.
-Come on.
-Hi. Beate. Harry.
-Lønn. Beate Lønn.
-Hi. Harry.
-Ellen Gjelten.
-Are you Swedish?
Yes. Uh...
Is that a problem?
No. I have nothing
against Sweden in general.
Hey.
You want to join the special unit?
There are 270 out of 300.
Strict requirements.
May I show you something?
Yes. please.
Okay. stand like you did before.
That looks like shit.
Right leg back. widen stance.
Lean forward a little.
Relax your shoulders.
-Relax.
-Yes.
Breathe slowly.
No thoughts. no feelings.
Only the goal exists.
Sink into the finish.
Breathe. Fire.
Fire.
Put the gun down.
Look. You can do it.
I can help you.
TOM WAALER
POLICE OFFICER
This is a Ceska Zbrojovka.
Rarely in Oslo. but the drug squad
confiscated one yesterday.
They found them during a raid
in a garage.
Belongs to Sverre Olsen.
A drug dealer.
but he probably also sells weapons.
He committed two bank robberies.
So you think Olsen is the bank robber?
Nobody heard about a Ceska
before the robbery.
Either the robber is Olsen.
or he sold the Ceska to him.
Yes. we must find Olsen.
Do you need someone with people skills?
Yes.
Take a look at this.
He makes them talk so that
his voice is not identified.
Your reaction to. What does he say?
Looks like he's telling her
that he's going to shoot her.
and she can't believe it.
-It was pointless. He had the money.
-Twelve years in prison instead of 21.
What do you think?
The report assumed that...
It shows that he is ready to kill.
so that the police don't chase them.
but wait for the special unit.
Have you read the report?
Then you know that during
during the chase one of our cars
was involved in an accident.
Yes. tell the DEA.
I'm going to Sverre Olsen's garage.
Yes. but weren't you... Yes.
Take the elevator. It's hot.
I love the damn stairs.
Hole ran down the stairs at 30 degrees.
Did something happen?
He has a lead on Sverre Olsen
after the gun confiscation yesterday.
But the drug squad has it under control.
Why is he interfering?
You should ask him.
Don't give up. boys.
Hi!
-Hey. you.
-Hi.
You called.
I have an appointment today
with the therapist today.
I'll be late
for dinner with you and Oleg.
Oh. But that's good.
When will I see you?
Can't you just eat?
and I'll come later?
Yes. no problem.
Will you bring a bottle of wine?
Yes. uh...
Yes. are you sure? It's not...
No. hey...
It's going to be an exercise in willpower.
Thank you.
I love you.
And you love me.
Bye bye.
ROY KVINSVIK
RACE SPORTS
Is he here?
Sverre?
Yes.
Where else would he be?
In the other place. I suppose.
Where is the other place?
Shit. the cops are here.
Stop the car!
Stop.
Where is Sverre Olsen's other place?
Don't say anything. Roy.
The police are not allowed to carry weapons.
-He can't leave you with a...
-I know. ok?
I say nothing.
Three hundred?
That's enough for an extra quarter. right?
He must not bribe you either.
Good.
-Five hundred?
-Shit. are you deaf?
Stop it.
Thousand.
Yes... I only have 800.
Sverre Olsen.
No.
Under the bridge at Schous-Platz.
Hey!
You're right. I'm not allowed to bribe.
And I promised to buy wine.
Hey. Are you looking for someone?
-Sverre.
-He's not here today.
But I have lots of great things.
That's ok. It's okay.
-He's looking for me. What now?
-Listen.
We have a cabin in Nordmarka.
Listen. They took the weapons.
I need money.
We'll cover the weapons. Stay in the hut.
Don't talk to anyone.
until you are out of the country.
You could be our courier.
when we need more.
-More? Do you want to start a war?
-Yes.
-Against whom?
-against people like you.
Fusiform gyrus.
The part of the brain
that recognizes faces.
And you've always had it?
Yes. we all have a fusiform gyrus.
It is in the brain.
But mine has always been
a little more developed.
So you can put any face
in the Swedish criminal record
recognize?
Yes. and in Norwegian.
I had it sent to me.
before I came here.
There are many thousands of faces.
-Yes. it's a bit weird.
-No!
What is it like to work with Harry Hole?
Harry...
I mean...
Yes. I can probably tell you everything.
There are rumors.
The fact that he killed a colleague
in a car accident while drunk.
The fact that he carries a bottle of whiskey
with him.
to prove to himself that he doesn't drink.
Harry is the best.
just not so good at everything else.
He is not...
...as interested in the limelight.
as others.
Hi. Beate.
-Hi.
-I've heard rumors that you're coming.
-Crazy that we're both here.
-Crazy.
So you know each other?
You could say that.
Is today your first day?
The first day at work is nerve-wracking.
I heard that you and Harry
Sverre Olsen are investigating?
Yes. exactly. Why?
Let me know if you need help.
-Thanks. I'll tell Harry.
-Ok.
See you then.
How do you know him?
He was my teacher at the police academy.
That was a few years ago.
Everything ok?
Yes.
But I have to get back to work. Okay.
-Yes. bye.
-Good-bye.
Shit!
Even if I could buy it.
it's not worth as much as you think.
But it's a diamond?
Yes. of mediocre quality.
The red color is caused by
uncrystallized carbon.
which makes it less clear than one would like.
-How much will you give me?
-Well...
I assume you don't have a certificate?
Good. Looks like a blood diamond.
Are you going to buy it or not?
No. I can't.
PSYCHOLOGIST
Hi. I'm Harry.
and I'm an alcoholic.
And that was so hard
for you to say.
that you didn't go back?
It helps many. but...
You'd better come here.
We work together. so...
Why now?
You've been sober for a long time. haven't you?
Yes... I met someone.
I knew it.
You would never buy such an expensive wine
for yourself.
And when you came through the door.
I barely recognized you.
"Like a normal. happy person."
Yes. I prefer to play it safe.
-I don't want to mess it up.
-No.
I heard that you're watching
the videos of the bank robbery again.
You think.
that there would not have been an accident.
if you had solved the case faster.
And maybe you think
that Lars would still be alive.
It's been five years. Harry.
You have to keep going.
What does that have to do with
that I met someone?
You don't want to mess it up.
And what always screws it up for you?
Your self-hatred.
Is that why I drink?
What do you think?
I drink out of thirst.
And I'm always thirsty.
Two years. three months and seven days.
since I last drank.
But I was shaking.
when I bought the wine.
Did you come here because you think
that I have the answer?
No. I think I want to
to hear myself say what I just said.
Isn't that what you're there for?
Okay. That's reassuring.
You have five minutes left.
If there is something
you want to ask or tell...
-Hi.
-You look good.
Hi. Oleg.
Oleg. say hi.
-Yes...
-I don't know if...
I can drink this.
-What's the name of the old game. Mom?
-Tetris.
-Tetris. right?
I told him.
that your record was 17.559 points.
I can beat him easily. I have 18.000.
I'll catch up. kiddo.
We can see that. old man.
-How's it going?
-No informant knows where he is.
The drug squad sends recordings
of the garage.
whether I recognize someone.
but the quality is so bad...
A convict.
Drugs.
Kvinsvik something.
Also a convict. Drugs again.
Ok.
These are customers.
They're in there for a minute or two.
You probably don't know
where Sverre Olsen is.
The guy is in there for 20 minutes.
He knows something.
No. I don't think so.
Why not?
He would have told us.
Can't you see who it is?
He was worse with my ex.
He bought Oleg a Rosenborg jersey.
and Oleg changed teams.
He cheered on Molde instead.
He doesn't make friends easily. so...
He's afraid of losing me.
He doesn't have to accept me.
If you and I...
When we what?
If we both carry on.
Oleg has to decide for himself.
who I am for him or not.
Ok?
Ok.
Do you know what the women
said at the station?
No. but I don't want to know either.
They said that no one can have Harry Hole
can have Harry Hole all to himself.
Because he loves his freedom too much.
-And?
-I have no interest in that.
I want all of you. otherwise it's pointless.
If that's a problem.
you should tell me now.
I just have to...
Yes. what's up?
Yes...
Okay. Yes. I'm on my way.
Beate Lønn has identified Tom Waaler.
On the surveillance videos
of Sverre Olsen's garage.
It's Tom Waaler!
Yes. and what does Waaler say?
Nothing yet.
He's not at work
and does not answer.
I'll pick you up. We're going to his place.
Did she say how safe she was?
-Seventy percent.
-Ok.
It is very specific.
Yes. hello?
This is Ellen Gjelten.
Can we come in?
Is it important? I am busy.
Takes only five minutes.
See you later. I'm sorry.
Hi.
-Not bad for a police salary.
-I inherited well.
What do you want?
You had contact with Sverre Olsen.
The case is in the hands of the drug squad.
Yes. exactly.
But why didn't you tell us?
What is that?
This is you.
What?
-According to the analysis. that's you.
-What analysis?
What did you do?
Why did you keep it a secret?
What are you doing?
Are you saying it's not you?
You accuse a colleague.
because you have photos from software
that delivers incorrect results 90% of the time.
This is not software. Tom.
And what...
Did Beate Lønn say that she sees things
that others don't see?
Beate Lønn sees things.
that others do not see.
We had a relationship.
that didn't end the way she wanted it to.
Really?
And that's why you think
she's lying now. right?
It wouldn't be the first time.
If we check where you were
when the pictures were taken...
I'm either here or at work.
Are Lucas and the others on vacation?
I don't know.
Is the guy coming back?
Say his name.
I don't know.
It depends on how late it gets.
Does he have the keys?
No.
I don't like it when he sleeps here.
He can sleep at home.
Ok.
Oleg?
-It's ok.
-Thank you.
It must be Waaler.
I'm not saying that Beate Lønn is lying.
but 70%? Two out of three.
If they have a history.
he naturally pops up in her head.
No. but I trust Beate Lønn
more than Tom Waaler.
How did it go with the therapist?
Aune thinks I have commitment issues.
-Oh. that's what he says. is it?
-Yes.
He says it's because I...
...lost my mother.
when I was little. and because...
...my first girlfriend killed herself.
And then... Yes. the car accident.
Then I prefer to
to be alone.
And then I decide to numb myself.
Psychologist gobbledygook.
Oh God. but that's the way it is. Harry.
Love. Bloody hell.
Sometimes it's like fate.
that it goes down the drain.
So one hopes that the end will come soon.
so that you can get it over with.
Is it over?
He was a bastard. like you said.
I'm fine. it's just...
What did you do?
Thrown another chair?
No. I didn't. Not this time.
Even if he deserved it this time.
Fortunately. we humans can
get through something like this.
Despite everything. We survive.
No. we do not.
We simply decay
a little slower or a little faster.
You are so broken.
See you on Sunday Rakel Fauke
at least three times that you love her.
Can you do that?
Have a nice sample.
Yes. I love you too.
-Bye.
Three times. Hole! Three times!
INVESTIGATION REPORT
BANK ROBBERY IN MAJORSTUA
I would like to introduce myself.
I am the creature.
which. according to your hope. does not exist.
I am the one
who crawls out from under your bed.
The one who sits on your chest.
puts the bridle in your mouth
and rides you.
I'll ride you all the way to hell.
-Hi. boss. What's up?
-Hi. Boris.
I'd like a quarter or two.
Can you take something from your stash?
-They searched the garage.
-Crap. Where can I get powder now?
No. I'll be back soon.
Don't look for a new supplier yet.
I'll send you a place. Come quickly.
Yes. ok.
Not a word about my whereabouts. ok?
What the hell? It's in the middle of the forest!
-Do you have the money?
-I'll pay later.
No.
No?
Hey. I got this from you.
Call me when you have the money.
Boris? Boris...
Bloody hell!
Thanks for coming along.
No problem.
No. I know.
that's not your thing.
What. Saturday in the park?
It doesn't get any better than this.
We are delighted.
-Would anyone like an ice cream?
-Yes.
-I can get it.
-No. I'll get it.
I'm leaving.
You can try to talk to each other.
This is how you do it.
His name is Boris Koupich.
At least the drug squad knows.
that he sold drugs
for Sverre Olsen.
I'll send you a photo.
so you can see what it looks like.
You owe me one.
And the repair of the chair.
that you threw.
Boris Koupich? Where is Sverre Olsen?
Stop!
Just tell me where he is.
PLAYER: OLEG_7
POINTS: 1457
What did mom mean. it's not your thing?
Too much sun and too much noise.
Far too many people.
Have you been on the diving platform?
I don't like heights.
Are you freezing?
Huh?
If you want to jump. stand on the edge.
and you can't move.
How do you know about it?
I froze too.
Before you wanted to jump?
No. not that.
I wanted to save my sister.
How?
I think I was twelve.
We took the elevator.
And her hair got caught
between the wall and the elevator.
And you froze?
Yes.
Was she ok?
She was doing well. losing hair and...
It bled. but it has healed.
What about you?
I can't take elevators.
-Really not?
-No.
Listen.
If you jump from the 10-meter tower.
I'll take the elevator to the 10th floor.
Never.
-Yes. what's up?
-I know where Sverre Olsen is.
And now I have a location
for a hut in Nordmarka.
Are you coming or what?
Yes. wait. I...
The Frogner bath?
You're a family man today!
-Yes. but I'm talking to...
-No. hey. my darling.
Take advantage of the only opportunity
that people like us get. Okay?
-I'm going to the location.
-Good. but hey...
-Don't do anything... I mean. no...
-No confrontation. no arrests.
I'll check.
whether Boris was telling the truth.
If Olsen is there.
I'll call the guys with the guns.
-Call the special unit. and then me.
-Yes. I will.
Good.
-Here.
-Thank you.
What did you talk about?
-The weather.
-About the weather?
-Yes. it's damn beautiful.
-Oleg...
-Sorry.
-But it's damn beautiful.
Olsen?
I need money.
-Or I say everything.
-Who?
The police. of course.
And you think they'll give you money?
Maybe not.
But they reduce my sentence
to a few months.
Maybe I'll do it.
Too bad for you.
Arms dealing brings four years. right?
And everything else.
I'll think about it. Olsen.
Mom. I don't want
be called a sissy.
You're sure to make it
by the end of the summer.
He jumps off the 10-meter tower once. doesn't he?
No. I don't think so.
-What do you mean?
-Maybe five. but not ten.
Why not?
Because it's high up.
-Did you jump from the 10-meter tower?
-No.
I once jumped from a height of seven meters...
Really.
When?
Hi.
When I was your age.
I snuck in.
when it was closed.
Why?
So no one could see me.
when I pinched and went downstairs.
No. that's all right. Okay.
That was Eric. He has a contract.
that he needs help with.
It has to be submitted by Monday.
I have to do it. Is that ok?
Sure.
-Do something.
-We find a job.
-Safe?
-Yes. we should be able to manage that.
Thank you.
...turn me around
I dance. hop and jump for you
I wish you all the best from the bottom of my heart
And tell me. what else do you want?
Congratulations
He offered me the position
deputy chief of police.
Wow. Congratulations.
I recommend you
as head of the criminal investigation department.
-Me?
-Yes. the seats change.
-Yes. chief of the criminal investigation department.
-Here he is. Chief of Police.
Happy birthday to you.
-Hi.
Is there someone in your department
who could take over your position?
Sure. Ellen Gjelten
has the best leadership qualities.
She is good with people.
has guts and thinks unconventionally.
But?
Tom Waaler is the most ambitious.
He has the highest clearance rate
after Hole.
Tell me about Waaler.
The drug squad has borrowed it for a case
from Interpol in Brussels.
He likes it here.
He completed the authorization course
at the police academy
and then he switched to us. Smart. tough.
He knows the system and knows
how to find your way around it.
But you don't want Harry Hole?
No. I like Harry.
It's nothing like that. but...
It would be best
if he only does one thing.
He doesn't always stick to the rules.
-Won't we get caught either?
-No. we won't. Up you go.
Shit.
The Lotus was parked at police headquarters.
Organized crime. Isaksson. right?
You have a good memory. Waaler.
What are you doing here?
We received a tip.
We are looking for one.
who could be in a hut.
Do you need help?
I know the place inside out.
No. pure formality.
It's logical that he's here.
Ok.
Beautiful leggings.
Thank you.
Okay. see you around.
Ok.
Seven meters feels higher than you would think.
than you would think.
-Sure it's deep enough?
-Only one way to find out.
It is deep enough.
Yes. mine was better than yours.
No. The point is
that the water splashes.
I am the champion here.
Unless you jump from the 10-meter tower.
Next year.
Ok.
The Prince.
Hello. Sverre.
Do you have any coffee?
Delta. Falkeid on the line.
Hello?
-I hope you have something for me.
-Of course.
Just a moment.
Here.
Hi. this is Harry. What's up?
Should I do it?
I don't really want to
lose to a kid. so...
I'll give you 50 crowns.
if we postpone it until next year.
-Hundred.
-No. forget it. I'm a policeman.
I turn around in three seconds.
It doesn't count.
if you don't have a witness.
Three.
Two.
One.
You loser.
Now you have to take the elevator.
-I will. Do you want to be a witness?
-I definitely do.
Yes. what's up?
Hey. you. We're done. What are you doing?
-We went fishing.
-Ok.
-I'll be right there.
-We're almost finished.
That's great. You're damn good.
-Thank you.
-I'm afraid I ruined your Saturday.
-Can I buy you a drink?
-All right. Some other time.
Another time.
Hi. this is Ellen's mailbox. What's up?
Ok...
What is the name of the song?
This is the Ramones.
"I Wanna Be Sedated."
-Have you heard of it?
-No.
Hi. this is Ellen's mailbox. What...
What are you going to tell mom?
That we didn't catch any fish.
That is a lie.
Oh?
Did you catch anything?
No.
Hi. this is Ellen's mailbox. What...
No...
Tom? Tom. what are you doing?
Tom. what are you doing?
-Talk to me.
-What were you doing in the forest?
Shit!
-Thank you.
-Yes. thank you.
-Hi. Mom.
-Hi! Did you have fun?
-Yes.
-Yes? Good.
-Yes?
-Hi. boss. it's me.
I try to reach Ellen.
She is alone
on a potentially dangerous mission.
I don't know where she is.
-Alone? Damn it. Harry...
-I know it's my responsibility.
Could you locate her cell phone?
-Are you worried?
-Yes. always. boss.
Ok. will do.
Tom. nothing has happened yet.
I promise.
Tom. listen to me.
I'll keep my mouth shut. I promise.
He too. He bleeds to death.
We blame him.
Please. Hey. it's not you.
It's not you.
You're a good man.
I'll keep my mouth shut. I promise.
I don't want that.
No. you haven't done anything yet.
Tom. you haven't done anything yet.
I'm sorry.
No. it's all right.
He won't say anything and I'll...
Ellen.
Damn.
Here. Let me see.
Now you can hold them. Like this.
So.
No!
Sverre? Point the gun at Ellen.
And then you shoot them.
Targets on them.
A little higher. And then you pull the trigger.
Pull the trigger.
-One. two. three.
-No...
-Can't you do that?
-Try again.
Then I know
that I can trust you. Okay?
Ok.
One more time. One. two...
Good.
Police operations center.
Yes. hello? Commissioner Tom Waaler.
A colleague was killed.
The perpetrator too.
I had to shoot in self-defense.
I'm in a cabin in Nordmarka.
I am sending coordinates.
Forensics must come here.
Hi. Harry.
-What is Waaler doing here?
-He was the first on the scene.
Get rid of him.
A known perpetrator lies dead in there.
-Don't go in.
-Get him out of there!
Don't go in there. Harry.
Leave it. damn it.
Harry...
I'm sorry. Harry.
I was too late.
Open your eyes.
It is a simple pattern.
A red guiding star.
A five-pointed devil's cross
shows you the way.
IN THIS SEASON
It was hard with Ellen.
but you have to keep going.
I can't cover for you all the time.
If I let you
against Waaler.
then you do it alone.
Harry. a murder.
I need you at work. sober.
Police.
Lisbeth has disappeared.
The premiere is in eleven days.
You didn't get any further?
The best people are working on the case.
This is for us.
He wants us to know.
He wants to be admired.
At the same time. he gives us
nothing tangible.
What if I were to
join your project?
You carry out a mission.
alone. no questions asked.
You have to burn bridges.
That's what we do. We'll take out the garbage.
Come on. I'll show you the way.
BASED ON THE NOVEL
THE FIFTH SIGN BY JO NESBØ
Subtitle by: Carina Chadwick